okay guys now let us talk about the
homeobox genes or homeotic genes and
what does this homeobox or homeotic
genes actually mean
now these are the simple term these are
the genes which are helping in
morphogenesis and as well in the organ
development okay during the development
of arthropods we can have not only art
supports but in case of mammals or in
different amphibians reptiles and
different species well what happens
there are some genes are important
really important for generating the
different body segments or body parts
okay and these genes control those
formation of those different body parts
and finally more of those body parts to
finally make an organ system
those are got the homeobox genes now in
this case as you can see in case of
Drosophila melanogaster we have we are
having this homeobox genes called hooks
as you can see here there are a lot of
different types of hooks genes out there
hooks a1 hooks to hooks for hooks 5 hook
6 and that several different types of
host genes are there and you can see
different host genes are situated in in
a DNA strand in a DNA punctuated by
several nucleotide sequences in interval
okay and what they are doing they are
actually producing different parts and
not only they're producing the parts
they are actually governing to convert
this body parts throughout the
morphogenesis to finally make a fully
functional organ so they are detecting
this different body part initials to
finally make the fully functional organs
that is really really important they are
really important during the
morphogenetic steering actually the
organogenesis okay so as you can see the
hooks one try to maintain and make this
body part of this this food fly body
part which is which is this hook in
front of their mouth and this hooks to
is actually sorry hooks to is actually
making this hook in front of the mouth
and as well as you can see here the
hooks 9 is helping to make this fruit
fly body in in body parts which is
really which is different in character
and also this Hawk seven-part is helping
them to produce this this wings this
beautiful wings so there are different
host genes and there are different
functions so if you change so you can
see the difference between the
functionality of Hox genes hoax one is
producing the hook where is work 7 is
producing the wings so if we if we can
change a little bit in nucleotide
sequence during this hoax gene
transcription you'll end up with drastic
or dangerous effects and dangerous
dangerous results we can have lead to
the formation of different inserts and
there are different results if you look
at it is called a one type of results
called the whole the antennae PDR
mutation and what do you mean by this
antenna PDA is that sometimes there is a
host gene which is responsible to
produce this antenna which is found onto
the head of this Drosophila fly so what
happens if anyone have a cause any
mutation in that gene as a result what
happens no longer that antenna is
growing from from the forehead instead
of the antenna a leg is growing onto the
forehead so that that could be really
really this fascinating picture or to
look but that is real that is real
because scientists and researchers are
inducing this kind of mutations to see
what kind of role this host genes are
actually playing so this is a really
kind of ruthless thing but still it
helped us to understand how and what are
the functionalities which are played by
this hooks genes and these are the
examples of the homeobox genes or
homeotic genes okay and that's it I hope
it will help you thank you